In probability theory and statistics, a Markov chain or Markov process 
is a stochastic process describing a sequence of possible events in 
which the probability of each event depends only on the state attained 
in the previous event. Informally, this may be thought of as, "What 
happens next depends only on the state of affairs now." A countably 
infinite sequence, in which the chain moves state at discrete time 
steps, gives a discrete-time Markov chain (DTMC). A continuous-time 
process is called a continuous-time Markov chain (CTMC). Markov 
processes are named in honor of the Russian mathematician Andrey 
Markov.

Markov chains have many applications as statistical models of 
real-world processes. They provide the basis for general stochastic 
simulation methods known as Markov chain Monte Carlo, which are used 
for simulating sampling from complex probability distributions, and 
have found application in areas including Bayesian statistics, biology, 
chemistry, economics, finance, information theory, physics, signal 
processing, and speech processing.

The adjectives Markovian and Markov are used to describe something that 
is related to a Markov process.

A Markov process is a stochastic process that satisfies the Markov 
property (sometimes characterized as "memorylessness"). In simpler 
terms, it is a process for which predictions can be made regarding 
future outcomes based solely on its present state and—most 
importantly—such predictions are just as good as the ones that could be 
made knowing the process's full history. In other words, conditional on 
the present state of the system, its future and past states are 
independent.

A Markov chain is a type of Markov process that has either a discrete 
state space or a discrete index set (often representing time), but the 
precise definition of a Markov chain varies. For example, it is common 
to define a Markov chain as a Markov process in either discrete or 
continuous time with a countable state space (thus regardless of the 
nature of time), but it is also common to define a Markov chain as 
having discrete time in either countable or continuous state space 
(thus regardless of the state space).
